NAGIOS INSTALLATION ON UBUNTU
Nagios installation has been divided into three parts.DevOps Certification Course
1. Installing Nagios on Master
2. Installing NRPE on slave
3. Installing Check_NRPE Plugin on Master
Commands with green font represents master, white font terminal represents
slave.
Installing Nagios on Master
Step 1: Update package index.
Step 2: Run the following two commands after that.
Step 3: Now, add user with the commands given below.
You can add passwords and Enter the user information as shown below.
Step 4: Run the following commands to complete the user adding process.
Step 5: Now that we are set with the prerequisites, install Nagios Core as shown below.
Step 6: Untar the file with the command shown below.
Step 7: Enter the Nagios-4.4.2 directory.
Step 8: Now with the given command make the required configurations.
If the execution ends with the below given setup then we are good to go.
Now we will make all the configuration work.
If everything is perfect, we should see an output as shown below.
Step 9: Run the following command.
After that you will see the output as shown below:
Step 10: Install init and run the following command.
Step 11: Install config and run the following command.
Step 12: Install commandmode as shown below:
Step 13: Before moving ahead run the following commands to copy eventhandlers scripts under
the libexec directory.
Step 14: Create Apache configurationDevOps Certification Course
Add the below given content to the configuration file.
Step 15: Add a password as shown below, to complete apache configuration
Step 16: Enable Apache configuration
Step 17: Enable Apache configuration
Step 18: Restart apache service.
Step 19: Now go to the main directory.
Step 20: To install the required Nagios plugin, download the plugins.
Step 21: Untar the file.
Step 22: Go inside Nagios-2.2.1 directory.
Step 23: Compile the plugins and then complete the plugin installation process running the
three commands given below:
Before we can start using Nagios, we going to need to make a small change in the base
configurations.
Step 24: Go to the main directory.
Step 25: Get inside /usr/local/nagios/etc/nagios.cfg
Uncomment that line:
Step 26: Make the following directory.
Step 27: Verify the configuration before starting Nagios.
Everything looks fine!
Step 28: Start Nagios.
If no error occurs move to the next step on the browser
